My name is Vicki MacDonald and I'm at Holy Trinity Church during the longest yarn.
I'm with Roger Goldsmith who was a child during the war and has got some memories of his childhood.
And if you tell me first, Roger, where did you live?
In New York, on Trent Nottinghamshire.
So you were brought up in the early years, you were about seven when the war broke out?
Yes, yes, it was just before I was born on 11th December and the war of course broke out at the beginning of September.
So tell me about your memories, did your father go and did he join up?
No, he was a GP.
So he was a reserved occupation, so he stayed at home.
He worked at the hospital and around New York.
So you were very young, but did you go to school during the war?
Because the war broke out, we were three of us, I had a twin brother and my sister was three years older.
And we were all sent off to, well my brother and I were kept together, we went to a school which was in Derbyshire, a boarding school.
So you were quite young when you were sent to the boarding school in Derbyshire?
Yes, well coming up to 70 years old.
So your father was quite young.
Do you have memories of that? Was it good, bad?
It was fine, I had a very interesting life.
And I will remember the war because looking back it seems extraordinary, but there was a newspaper every day,
News Chronicle it was called, and I read that every day to see what was happening.
It was in the school, it was put up on boards so you could read it.
And there must have been one or two other newspapers as well, but I always kept to the News Chronicle, it was one source of paper at that time.
So for you the war was happening somewhere else, but there was a lot of bombing in the Midlands.
Did that affect you when you were at school?
No, it was not that part of it. We did have bombing and I will remember the two planes that came over and dropped bombs on the factory,
which was really very close to us, which produced ball bearings.
And that was the only factory in the country that produced these things.
So did they rebuild the factory fairly quickly and get it going again then?
I don't know the details of it and I haven't come across any history of that because the planes came over very slowly
and I just happened to look out of the kitchen window and I dropped the bombs on this factory, which was really quite close to where we lived.
But it missed your playing fields?
Sorry?
It missed the school's playing fields?
Oh no, by the way. Yes, at that time it happened to be home. I suppose it was still quite young, must have been, yes, at seven.
And it hadn't been settled down properly in a boarding school, that happened a bit late.
So your father survived the war, your parents, everything, and you came out of the war sort of unscathed?
Oh yes.
So do you remember being short of food?
Well, I remember, well remember rationing.
My mother was very big in doing a lot for the, there were a lot of soldiers and air force people around New York
because it was on the East Coast and fairly close.
At the church, he did a lot there and my mother worked in the canteen where the soldiers and so on came every afternoon.
At least a bun and tea, didn't they, I hear from other people?
That sort of a thing.
Your mother did her work as well, was it perhaps the WRVS or was it NAFI?
I thought it was the WVS, the voluntary service, yes, it must have been.
So it all passed fairly smoothly, did you have a gas mask, were you issued with gas masks?
Oh yes, yes, yes.
Did you have a Mickey Mouse one?
I never heard of it.
Well there were some that were issued with Mickey Mouse noses apparently.
Oh really? I certainly don't remember that.
But yes, the sirens would go for something because the Germans were obviously flying around.
Our house was a big house where we had a big cellar so we would all go down there.
And when the actual bombing took place, it was one o'clock in the afternoon, so we weren't anywhere near the cellar.
So it just so happened I looked out of the window and there were two bombs dropping on the ball bearing factories.
Oh well listen, thank you so much, they're lovely memories and I'm delighted to have met you.
Thank you.